Jake Martin

I choose the dataset of chopstick efficiency because it's humorous. I can just imagine people failing at picking up peanuts and dropping them in a cup.
I wanted to visualize this in a way that shows the difference between the different lengths. I did this by allowing you to dynamically switching between the
different lengths for the data, and showing actual chopsticks to represent them.

In one way I could have showed the difference better. If I had scaled the images so the scale started at 20, it would have shown the differences more significantly.
The reason I didn't do this was because I didn't want to misrepresent the data, and add bias.

I tried initially to rewrite this graph to work with my data, and realized it was completely written around specific years being passed in one at a time. http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/4062085
Because of this, I decided to start from scratch and write my own bar graph. I would then add pieces I wanted from the other graphs I liked.


The installation was really quick. Re-learning javascript was harder. I felt that once I got the hang of D3(30 minutes), the rest became super quick and easy. I liked the tutorials, more than just building right from the examples, but I used the examples as references of what I wanted to do.
  D3 is cool and relatively easy and feature rich, but it does not handle large datasets well. Even with my small dataset it still made the browser load much slower.
  I especially liked the functions it had on top of javascript, that reminded me of jquery. CSV loading was simple and easy. I'm definitely going to use this tool in the future. It's really  neat.

Protip, run it in firefox. Google chrome will think there is cross site scripting ooooooooooor you can find it online at http://jacobjiggler.github.io/


Source of data:
http://blog.yhat.com/posts/7-funny-datasets.html

Use of example graph:
http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/4062085

instructions
http://alignedleft.com/tutorials/d3/making-a-bar-chart

1 hour reading, 20 minutes thinking, 5 hours coding
